# Voxel-Engine-Java

I have created a voxel engine which renders everlasting map of a world. For this, I have used rasterization technique along with texture mapping to render scene of a world. At a camera position, we can see 160 * 160 voxels world. As the camera moves in forward direction, the  number of voxels by which the camera is moved, that number of voxels are added to the front of the world, while the same number is removed from the back of the world, thus creating a continuous world, however only 160 * 160 voxels are render on screen at a time. Use ‘W’ key to move forward the camera and ‘S’ key to move backwards. Use ‘M’ to trap the mouse and ‘scroll mouse’ for rotation of camera.

The world consists of many things like dirt which forms the base of the world, above which there are various fields of 16 *16, i.e. there are 100 different fields. The fields are 1) Mountain Field, 2) Lake Field, 3) Cows Field, 4) Garden Field, 5) Forest Fields, 6) Sign Field, 7) Desert Field, 8) Farm Field and 9) Grass Field. This fields are distributed over the 10*10 field grid. The mountain field has a mountain structure where the voxels are placed above each other up to a certain height creating a mountain effect. There is snow on top of the mountain. Then, there is a Lake Field where you can see the water, also the water is transparent and hence you can see the dirt voxel below water voxel. This is done using blending technique. Plus, there is fish animation where fish moves up and down the water. A time counter is used to make the animation where after certain time. the fish will be slightly translated to new position thus creating an animation effect. Similarly, for Cows field there are cows moving front and back using animation. However, the cows are animated per counter i.e. after a counter (certain time) they are translated to new position and will remain there until the counter is incremented, whereas the fish are continuous animation as they will keep on changing position per frame. There are flowers in garden field, trees in forest fields, wheats in farm fields. Grass and Desert are normal terrains field. Sign field consists of a welcome sign. The various objects like cow, fish, parrots, trees etc. are render using texture mapping and each texture is present in the resources folder. Also, the fields will be generated in one thread while they will be render using another thread, thus optimizing the time. 

The project is implemented using java 8 (the only requirement for the project to run ) and has covered all the requirements as mentioned: Rasterization technique, Texture mapping, Transparent Object and Moving Animation. There are 4 jars used i.e. 1) lwjgl.jar - Lightweight Java Game Library (contains various OpenGL bindings).  2)lwjgl-util.jar – It contains classes like Vector2f and Matrix4f. 3) PNGDecoder for decoding and extracting information from PNG like width and height etc.4) slick-util.jar – is used to load various image, for use with LWJG. 
